# Response to Blumenstock
Zyannah Mallick

Jan 27

Bluemstock describes the potential of big data to aid international development and solve humanitraian problems. Data collected from digital footprints can be analyzed via Machine Learning algorithms to identify those in need, whether they be from poor, marginalized communities or areas struck by natural disasters, and match appropriate resources to them. 

While this would be an ideal way to discover those in need of humanitarian aid, there are four problems with this approach: unanticipated effects, lack of validation, biased algorithms, and lack of regulation. These big data solutions are often created by the rich, thus empowering them instead of the poor. Those who are being targeted might not fully understand what is happening and will end up being negatively impacted. The marginalized might not even have access to mobile phones and therefore not have a digital footprint, or they might not have the financial literacy to understand certain 'solutions'. Additionally, because big data is such a developing field, tools might not be fully tested before they are launched. Currently, there isn't enough data that supports the accuracy of such algorithms over time and there is no regulation of this data. Private companies have the power to essentially do what they want with this data to maximize their profits, as there is no legislation restricting the use of such data.

To address these issues, efforts should focus on customizing the algorithms to better suit the people they are intended for. If the algorithim is customized for those in Africa, for example, where it will be used, then the benefits for a potential solution can be analyzed for that specific community. Additionally, 
digital data and conventional data should be combined and used together to validate big data algorithms. Better collaboration between data scientists, humanitarian agencies, the government, and the private sector will help fix these problems too since you need people who understand the context of the issue working alongside those who are developing the algorithms. Overall, big data shows promise in assisting humaintarian development but more development needs to occur to better customize the algorithms. 

I think good intent is an important aspect when considering the intersection of human development with data science, but like Anna said, not enough. While you may start off with good intent, that could very easily change if you have an opportunity to increase your profits. Transperency would be ideal so that the private sector can be held accountable, but I don't think it would be a highly supported solution to these issues because many people value the protection of their personal information. However, if transparency could be increased in a way that doesn't exploit our personal information I think it could potentially lead to better results. 
