# Stevens et al. Reading Response

Zyannah Mallick


1. Stevens et al. use an algorithm called Random Forest to produce high resolution descriptions of population distrubutions globaly. Random Forest is a nonparametric algorithm that has a certain number of regression trees, each of which is "bagged". Each tree has a different bootstrap sample of the data and this random sample is used to "estimate the individual tree splits after which the “out-ofbag” (OOB) error is calculated (the mean squared error) for those observations in the original training data which were not part of the random sample". The "forest" improves itself by using the best set of predictors outputted by the trees. You can determine how many trees the Random Forest will run, and as the number of trees increase so does the accuracy of the results. For this situation, the log population variable is used as the response variable. Random Forest is a daysymmetric redistribution approach and it can incorporate large, global data sets of both continuous and discrete covariates when there is no finer data for larger areas. Random Forest uses both remotely sensed and geospatial data and incorporates them into the weighted layer of the model.

2. Machine learning alogirthms recieves input data analyzes them using pre-programmed algorithms to predict output values. Random Forest first trains itself with the data and then "learns" from the data. It forms patterns and makes connections that classical statistical approaches wouldn't be able to make and it can be used for a wide range of purposes. Like mentioned above, RF uses both continuous and discrete data so the results are more accurate than a classical approach would be. 

3. Several different geospatial covariates were used in this paper: land cover,night-time lights, and topography. Geospatial data that correlated to human population presence were also included: roadways, bodies of water, facility locations, etc.  Raster grids were made with 100m by 100m pixels. Big data is important in the estimation of ML methods because it increases the accuracy of the results since the algorithm knows which variables to weigh more heavily. 

4. Knowing the accurate population distribution of LMICs is very important for many reasons. If natural disaster or a crisis were to occur in one of those countries, aid organizations and other countries would need to know the accurate population distributuon so they know how many resources they need and which areas to allocate resources too. Countries can use it to determine which areas are heavily populated and thus need more infrastructure and companies can use it as well to determine where best to target their efforts.

5. The LMIC I am looking at is Syria and I plan to look into health care facilities/clinics. Syria is currently in a civil war (and has been for the past several years now) where many Syrians have been killed, infrastructure has been compromised, and health care is restricted despite the high demand. In a country like this, having a highly accurate description of the population distribution will be highly helpful to aid organizations that are trying to set up health care clinics and infrastructure for Syrians to come to for medical help. Organizations can focus their attention on setting up facilities that are accessibile to people in the densly populated regions of Syria.


