#Wardrop Reading

	The top-down approach to population disaggregation is when dasymetric mapping techniques use ancillary/covariate data to redistribute the data at finer scales which allows researchers to disaggregate the areal unit to more spatial distributions. GIS and remote satellite technologies are used to map the population dasymetrically, which produces high spatial resolution grids that are then used to represent the ancilary data. An example of top-down disaggregation is allocating population counts based on covariates, like distance to road or land cover, that correlate with population density. However, some challenges with this approach is that researchers don’t know how reliable the input population data is that they are utilizing to get the population estimate, especially in poorer areas. Top-down disaggregation only works well when the census data is accurate. 
	
	The bottom-up approach has the same goal as top-down disaggregation, which is “to produce population estimates fir small areas or uniform, high spatial-resolution grids”. Specifically, this approach predicts populations for large areas when there is only data available for small subsets of that larger area. This approach gives population totals for administrative levels and it relies on microcensus surveys—complete counts of the population in small, defined areas. Then covariates, which should be strongly correlated to the population density and readily available for all the areas being estimated, should be chosen. An example of the bottom-up method is using the area of cities to estimate population sizes. 
	
	These new methodologies are becoming more popular compared to the past approaches because they have the potential to produce population estimates for spatially disaggregated areas where there isn’t reliable or updated census data. Additionally, this approach is more cost-efficient as it uses micro census and satellite images for the area versus a full census. 

	
